1 A software process model is an abstraction of the software development process. It help software engineers plan their processes, estimate costs, identify challenges and communicate with teams and customers.

2. Waterfall is a Linear Sequential Life Cycle Model which moves from one phase to the other but Agile is a continuous iteration of development and testing in the software development process.

Advantages of waterfall model 
The waterfall is a very easy model to use because of how it is that is has specific process to go through. 
It's helps in faster delivery of products 
Disadvantages of waterfall model
It's is not good for large products
It is very difficult to move back to one phase when there's a mistake. 

Advantages of Agile model
It uses client process so makes the client available in every phase 
It uses incremental process so it makes team members and clients to know the next thing to do once one phase is done. 

Disadvantages of Agile model 
It's not ideal method to use when it's not a larger product
It requires expect to use because of it's nature

 3. Rational unified process is a software  development model with many tools which help in coding and it's rated task.
The Rational Unified Process is a modern generic process model that is organized into phases (inception, elaboration, construction and transition) but separates 
activities (requirements, analysis and design, etc.) from these phases unlike other software developer processes which may be structured for iterative development 
and delivery so that changes may be made without disrupting the system as a whole.

The key phases in RUP
Inception:
During the first phase, the basic idea and structure of the project are determined.
Elaboration:
During the elaboration phase, the system’s requirements and its required architecture are assessed and analysed.
construction:
In the construction phase of the Rational Unified Process (RUP), the software system is constructed in its entirety.
Transition:
The objective of the transition phase is to transfer the product to its new user.

Advantages of Rational Unified Process

It helps to identify issues early in the process life cycle.
It improves process control and risk management. 

Disadvantages of Rational Unified Process. 

It is a complex model to implement as it has multiple stages of the workflow.
It emphasizes the integration of modules throughout the software development process, so this creates trouble during the testing phase.
